The F508 mutation leads to retention of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) in the endoplasmic reticulum and rapid degradation by the proteasome and other proteolytic systems.  1 The abbreviations used are: ER, endoplasmic reticulum; ERAD, ER-associated degradation; CFTR, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator; RT, reverse transcriptase; GAPDH, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; ALLN, N-acetyl-leucyl-leucyl-norleucinal; MDCK, Madin-Darby canine kidney.  The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) is an epithelial cell Cl channel, whose gating activity and membrane trafficking are controlled by cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation.  The abbreviations used are: ER, endoplasmic reticulum; ERAD, ER associated degradation; CFTR, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator; DTT, dithiothreitol; HMW, high molecular weight; RRL, rabbit reticulocyte lysate; ALLN, N-acetyl-L-leucyl-L-leucinyl-norleucinal; TPCK, N-tosyl-L-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone; TLCK, N-tosyl lysyl chloromethyl ketone; TM, transmembrane; PAGE, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.   Defective CFTR function disrupts ion transport, which is believed to contribute to the clinical sequelae characteristic of cystic fibrosis (CF) (49, 58, 67, 74).  1 Abbreviations used in this paper: Ab, antibody; BFA, brefeldin A; CF, cystic fibrosis; CFTR, CF transmembrane conductance regulator; ERAD, ER-associated degradation; HA, hemagglutinin; HA-Ub, HA-tagged ubiquitin; NBD, nuclear binding domain; wild-type, wt.   The absence of CFTR-mediated electrodiffusional ATP movement may thus be a relevant component of the pleiotropic cystic fibrosis phenotype.   In vitro pharmacologic restoration of CFTR-mediated chloride transport with sodium 4-phenylbutyrate in cystic fibrosis epithelial cells containing F508-CFTR.  Endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation of misfolded cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein is known to involve the ubiquitin-proteasome system.   Using a cell-free reticulocyte lysate system we have examined the relationship between biosynthesis and ER-associated degradation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), a polytopic protein with 12 predicted transmembrane segments.  

